README.md, before:

# K-Chief Marine Automation Platform

A comprehensive marine automation platform built with .NET 8, designed to provide scalable, high-quality solutions for vessel control systems, industrial protocol integration, and real-time data management.

## Overview

The K-Chief Marine Automation Platform is a modular, distributed system that simulates and manages vessel control operations. It provides a foundation for building integrated marine automation solutions with support for industrial communication protocols, alarm management, and real-time data processing.

## Architecture

The platform follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **KChief.Platform.Core**: Core domain models, interfaces, and shared components
- **KChief.Platform.API**: RESTful API layer providing HTTP endpoints for system integration
- **KChief.DataAccess**: Data persistence layer with repository pattern implementation
- **KChief.VesselControl**: Vessel control logic and engine monitoring
- **KChief.AlarmSystem**: Alarm and event management system
- **KChief.Protocols.OPC**: OPC UA protocol integration for industrial communication
- **KChief.Protocols.Modbus**: Modbus TCP/RTU protocol integration

## Technology Stack

- **.NET 8**: Latest LTS version of .NET
- **ASP.NET Core**: Web API framework
- **Entity Framework Core**: ORM for data access
- **xUnit**: Unit testing framework
- **Docker**: Containerization support

## Prerequisites

- .NET 8 SDK or later
- Docker Desktop (optional, for containerized deployment)
- Git

## Getting Started

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/saidulIslam1602/K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform.git
cd K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform
```

### Build the Solution

```bash
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

### Run Tests

```bash
dotnet test
```

### Run the API

```bash
cd src/KChief.Platform.API
dotnet run
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:5001` or `http://localhost:5000` (depending on your configuration).

### Access Points

- **Swagger UI**: `http://localhost:5000/swagger` - Interactive API documentation
- **Health Checks**: `http://localhost:5000/health` - System health status
- **Health Dashboard**: `http://localhost:5000/health-ui` - Real-time monitoring dashboard
- **Performance Metrics**: `http://localhost:5000/metrics` - Application performance data
- **SignalR Hub**: `ws://localhost:5000/hubs/vessel` - Real-time vessel updates
- **Authentication**: `http://localhost:5000/api/auth/login` - User authentication endpoint

### Default Users

| Username | Password | Role | Description |
|----------|----------|------|-------------|
| admin | admin123 | Administrator | Full system access |
| captain | captain123 | Captain | Vessel command authority |
| engineer | engineer123 | ChiefEngineer | Technical systems |
| operator | operator123 | Operator | General operations |
| observer | observer123 | Observer | Read-only monitoring |

## Project Structure

```
K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform/
├── src/
│   ├── KChief.Platform.Core/          # Core domain and shared components
│   ├── KChief.Platform.API/            # REST API layer
│   ├── KChief.DataAccess/             # Data access layer
│   ├── KChief.VesselControl/          # Vessel control logic
│   ├── KChief.AlarmSystem/            # Alarm management
│   ├── KChief.Protocols.OPC/          # OPC UA integration
│   └── KChief.Protocols.Modbus/       # Modbus integration
├── tests/
│   ├── KChief.Platform.Tests/         # Unit tests
│   └── KChief.Integration.Tests/      # Integration tests
├── docker/                             # Docker configuration files
├── docs/                               # Additional documentation
└── .github/
    └── workflows/                      # CI/CD pipeline definitions
```

## Features

### Implemented Features

- Modular platform architecture
- RESTful API endpoints with Swagger documentation
- Unit and integration testing framework (37 tests)
- Docker containerization support
- Full CI/CD pipeline with multiple stages
- OPC UA client implementation
- Modbus TCP/RTU protocol support
- Real-time data streaming with SignalR
- Comprehensive alarm and event management
- Message bus integration (RabbitMQ)
- Legacy code modernization examples
- Comprehensive documentation
- Database persistence with Entity Framework Core
- Repository and Unit of Work patterns
- SQLite database with migrations and seeding
- Comprehensive health checks and monitoring
- Performance metrics and Application Insights integration
- Kubernetes-ready health probes (liveness, readiness, startup)
- Real-time monitoring dashboard with Health Checks UI
- Global exception handling with RFC 7807 Problem Details
- Custom exception types with context and correlation tracking
- Structured error logging with comprehensive diagnostics
- Comprehensive structured logging with Serilog
- Request/response logging with correlation ID tracking
- Multiple log sinks (Console, File, Application Insights)
- JWT authentication with role-based authorization
- Maritime-specific user roles and permissions
- API key authentication for service-to-service communication
- Policy-based authorization with custom requirements
- Comprehensive user management and security features

### Architecture Highlights

- Clean Architecture with separation of concerns
- Dependency Injection throughout
- Async/await for non-blocking operations
- Event-driven architecture
- Protocol abstraction for industrial communication
- Real-time updates via SignalR
- Message bus for distributed communication
- Production-ready monitoring and observability
- Custom health checks for all dependencies
- Performance monitoring with metrics collection
- Request correlation and distributed tracing
- Production-grade error handling and exception management
- Standardized error responses with detailed context
- Security-aware logging with sensitive data protection
- Advanced structured logging with rich contextual data
- End-to-end request correlation and distributed tracing
- Multiple logging sinks with environment-specific configuration
- Production-grade authentication and authorization system
- Maritime hierarchy-based role management with 11 distinct roles
- Multi-method authentication (JWT, API Keys, OAuth 2.0 ready)
- Fine-grained policy-based access control with custom requirements
- Comprehensive security features with audit logging and monitoring

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the `docs/` directory:

- [Architecture Documentation](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - System architecture and design
- [API Documentation](docs/API.md) - Complete API reference
- [Deployment Guide](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) - Deployment instructions
- [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) - Development guidelines
- [Legacy Modernization](docs/LEGACY_MODERNIZATION.md) - Code modernization examples
- [Database Guide](docs/DATABASE.md) - Entity Framework implementation guide
- [Monitoring Guide](docs/MONITORING.md) - Health checks and observability implementation
- [Error Handling Guide](docs/ERROR_HANDLING.md) - Exception management and error handling patterns
- [Logging Guide](docs/LOGGING.md) - Structured logging with Serilog implementation
- [Authentication Guide](docs/AUTHENTICATION.md) - Comprehensive authentication and authorization system

## Development Guidelines

### Code Standards

- Follow C# coding conventions and best practices
- Implement SOLID principles
- Write comprehensive unit tests
- Use async/await for I/O operations
- Implement proper error handling and logging
- See [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) for details

### Testing

- Maintain high test coverage (target: 80%+)
- Write unit tests for all business logic
- Include integration tests for API endpoints
- Use mocking frameworks for dependencies
- Current coverage: 37 tests (20 unit + 17 integration)

### Git Workflow

- Create feature branches from `main`
- Use descriptive commit messages
- Submit pull requests for code review
- Ensure all tests pass before merging

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

For questions or inquiries, please open an issue in the repository.

## Acknowledgments

This project is designed to demonstrate modern software development practices in the marine automation domain, with a focus on platform architecture, system integration, and industrial protocol communication.

Commit message:

feat: Implement comprehensive caching and performance optimization
- Add in-memory caching service with IMemoryCache
- Add Redis distributed caching support
- Implement composite caching (in-memory + Redis)
- Add cache invalidation service with intelligent strategies
- Add HTTP response caching middleware
- Implement cached repository pattern for VesselRepository
- Add Redis health check
- Configure caching in appsettings (dev, prod, default)
- Add comprehensive caching documentation
- Update README with caching features

Features:
- In-memory caching for frequently accessed data
- Distributed caching with Redis support
- HTTP response caching middleware
- Query result caching with automatic invalidation
- Intelligent cache invalidation strategies
- Entity-specific cache expiration times
- Cache-aside pattern implementation
- Health checks for Redis connectivity

README.md, after:

# K-Chief Marine Automation Platform

A comprehensive marine automation platform built with .NET 8, designed to provide scalable, high-quality solutions for vessel control systems, industrial protocol integration, and real-time data management.

## Overview

The K-Chief Marine Automation Platform is a modular, distributed system that simulates and manages vessel control operations. It provides a foundation for building integrated marine automation solutions with support for industrial communication protocols, alarm management, and real-time data processing.

## Architecture

The platform follows a modular architecture with clear separation of concerns:

- **KChief.Platform.Core**: Core domain models, interfaces, and shared components
- **KChief.Platform.API**: RESTful API layer providing HTTP endpoints for system integration
- **KChief.DataAccess**: Data persistence layer with repository pattern implementation
- **KChief.VesselControl**: Vessel control logic and engine monitoring
- **KChief.AlarmSystem**: Alarm and event management system
- **KChief.Protocols.OPC**: OPC UA protocol integration for industrial communication
- **KChief.Protocols.Modbus**: Modbus TCP/RTU protocol integration

## Technology Stack

- **.NET 8**: Latest LTS version of .NET
- **ASP.NET Core**: Web API framework
- **Entity Framework Core**: ORM for data access
- **xUnit**: Unit testing framework
- **Docker**: Containerization support

## Prerequisites

- .NET 8 SDK or later
- Docker Desktop (optional, for containerized deployment)
- Git

## Getting Started

### Clone the Repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/saidulIslam1602/K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform.git
cd K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform
```

### Build the Solution

```bash
dotnet restore
dotnet build
```

### Run Tests

```bash
dotnet test
```

### Run the API

```bash
cd src/KChief.Platform.API
dotnet run
```

The API will be available at `https://localhost:5001` or `http://localhost:5000` (depending on your configuration).

### Access Points

- **Swagger UI**: `http://localhost:5000/swagger` - Interactive API documentation
- **Health Checks**: `http://localhost:5000/health` - System health status
- **Health Dashboard**: `http://localhost:5000/health-ui` - Real-time monitoring dashboard
- **Performance Metrics**: `http://localhost:5000/metrics` - Application performance data
- **SignalR Hub**: `ws://localhost:5000/hubs/vessel` - Real-time vessel updates
- **Authentication**: `http://localhost:5000/api/auth/login` - User authentication endpoint

### Default Users

| Username | Password | Role | Description |
|----------|----------|------|-------------|
| admin | admin123 | Administrator | Full system access |
| captain | captain123 | Captain | Vessel command authority |
| engineer | engineer123 | ChiefEngineer | Technical systems |
| operator | operator123 | Operator | General operations |
| observer | observer123 | Observer | Read-only monitoring |

## Project Structure

```
K-Chief-Marine-Automation-Platform/
├── src/
│   ├── KChief.Platform.Core/          # Core domain and shared components
│   ├── KChief.Platform.API/            # REST API layer
│   ├── KChief.DataAccess/             # Data access layer
│   ├── KChief.VesselControl/          # Vessel control logic
│   ├── KChief.AlarmSystem/            # Alarm management
│   ├── KChief.Protocols.OPC/          # OPC UA integration
│   └── KChief.Protocols.Modbus/       # Modbus integration
├── tests/
│   ├── KChief.Platform.Tests/         # Unit tests
│   └── KChief.Integration.Tests/      # Integration tests
├── docker/                             # Docker configuration files
├── docs/                               # Additional documentation
└── .github/
    └── workflows/                      # CI/CD pipeline definitions
```

## Features

### Implemented Features

- Modular platform architecture
- RESTful API endpoints with Swagger documentation
- Unit and integration testing framework (37 tests)
- Docker containerization support
- Full CI/CD pipeline with multiple stages
- OPC UA client implementation
- Modbus TCP/RTU protocol support
- Real-time data streaming with SignalR
- Comprehensive alarm and event management
- Message bus integration (RabbitMQ)
- Legacy code modernization examples
- Comprehensive documentation
- Database persistence with Entity Framework Core
- Repository and Unit of Work patterns
- SQLite database with migrations and seeding
- Comprehensive health checks and monitoring
- Performance metrics and Application Insights integration
- Kubernetes-ready health probes (liveness, readiness, startup)
- Real-time monitoring dashboard with Health Checks UI
- Global exception handling with RFC 7807 Problem Details
- Custom exception types with context and correlation tracking
- Structured error logging with comprehensive diagnostics
- Comprehensive structured logging with Serilog
- Request/response logging with correlation ID tracking
- Multiple log sinks (Console, File, Application Insights)
- JWT authentication with role-based authorization
- Maritime-specific user roles and permissions
- API key authentication for service-to-service communication
- Policy-based authorization with custom requirements
- Comprehensive user management and security features
- In-memory caching for frequently accessed data
- Distributed caching with Redis support
- HTTP response caching middleware
- Query result caching with automatic invalidation
- Intelligent cache invalidation strategies

### Architecture Highlights

- Clean Architecture with separation of concerns
- Dependency Injection throughout
- Async/await for non-blocking operations
- Event-driven architecture
- Protocol abstraction for industrial communication
- Real-time updates via SignalR
- Message bus for distributed communication
- Production-ready monitoring and observability
- Custom health checks for all dependencies
- Performance monitoring with metrics collection
- Request correlation and distributed tracing
- Production-grade error handling and exception management
- Standardized error responses with detailed context
- Security-aware logging with sensitive data protection
- Advanced structured logging with rich contextual data
- End-to-end request correlation and distributed tracing
- Multiple logging sinks with environment-specific configuration
- Production-grade authentication and authorization system
- Maritime hierarchy-based role management with 11 distinct roles
- Multi-method authentication (JWT, API Keys, OAuth 2.0 ready)
- Fine-grained policy-based access control with custom requirements
- Comprehensive security features with audit logging and monitoring

## Documentation

Comprehensive documentation is available in the `docs/` directory:

- [Architecture Documentation](docs/ARCHITECTURE.md) - System architecture and design
- [API Documentation](docs/API.md) - Complete API reference
- [Deployment Guide](docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) - Deployment instructions
- [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) - Development guidelines
- [Legacy Modernization](docs/LEGACY_MODERNIZATION.md) - Code modernization examples
- [Database Guide](docs/DATABASE.md) - Entity Framework implementation guide
- [Monitoring Guide](docs/MONITORING.md) - Health checks and observability implementation
- [Error Handling Guide](docs/ERROR_HANDLING.md) - Exception management and error handling patterns
- [Logging Guide](docs/LOGGING.md) - Structured logging with Serilog implementation
- [Authentication Guide](docs/AUTHENTICATION.md) - Comprehensive authentication and authorization system
- [Caching Guide](docs/CACHING.md) - Caching strategies and performance optimization

## Development Guidelines

### Code Standards

- Follow C# coding conventions and best practices
- Implement SOLID principles
- Write comprehensive unit tests
- Use async/await for I/O operations
- Implement proper error handling and logging
- See [Developer Guide](docs/DEVELOPER_GUIDE.md) for details

### Testing

- Maintain high test coverage (target: 80%+)
- Write unit tests for all business logic
- Include integration tests for API endpoints
- Use mocking frameworks for dependencies
- Current coverage: 37 tests (20 unit + 17 integration)

### Git Workflow

- Create feature branches from `main`
- Use descriptive commit messages
- Submit pull requests for code review
- Ensure all tests pass before merging

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add some amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## Contact

For questions or inquiries, please open an issue in the repository.

## Acknowledgments

This project is designed to demonstrate modern software development practices in the marine automation domain, with a focus on platform architecture, system integration, and industrial protocol communication.
